
LOCKED HOMEPAGE/PICK ARCHIVE FEED SOURCE - MAY 18, 2026
-------------------------------------------------------

The BetLegendPicks homepage Latest Blog Picks cards and Pick Archive cards are
Google Sheet pick surfaces only. Their source of truth is homepage-picks-data.js.

Rules:
- Only real Google Sheet pick pages belong in homepage cards and Pick Archive cards.
- Do not insert preview pages, featured-game pages, sport hubs, monthly archive/calendar pages, records pages, or guide/news pages into those cards.
- Normal cadence is one or two Google Sheet picks per day, newest first.
- homepage-picks-data.js controls the visible card sequence; new sheet picks must be added at the top with exact date, URL, image, sport, and result when graded.
- Before publishing, run python scripts/validate_homepage_pick_image_uniqueness.py.

The BetLegendPicks homepage Latest Blog Picks card grid and the full Pick Archive
must use site-posts-manifest.json as the ordering source of truth. Do not let
homepage-picks-data.js, static fallback cards, old archive pages, or any stale
hardcoded list control post order or pagination.

Rules:
- scripts/rebuild_archive_cards.py regenerates site-posts-manifest.json,
  archive.html, and latest.html from the complete current post source.
- index.html must render homepage feed order from site-posts-manifest.json.
- homepage-picks-data.js is metadata only for matching Google Sheet pick cards
  such as image/result/sport. It must not define the primary homepage sequence.
- Page 1 is the first six manifest posts. Compact pagination starts immediately
  after those six at eight posts per page.
- After publishing, verify live homepage and archive counts/order against the
  manifest before claiming completion.

For every publish or recovery run:
python scripts/rebuild_archive_cards.py
python scripts/audit_archive_cards.py
BETLEGEND PICKS - CONTENT WORKFLOW SHEET

LOCKED MASTER WORKFLOW - MAY 15, 2026
-------------------------------------

This sheet is the required order of operations for every BetLegend sports
article, slate post, preview, calendar page, and pick. Do not skip steps. Do
not call work complete until every applicable check passes.

LOCKED ROUTING ADDENDUM - MAY 16, 2026
--------------------------------------

- BetLegendPicks may receive up to two posts per day. Other active sites default
  to one post per day unless Nima explicitly overrides that specific date.
- Google Sheet pick posts belong in Latest Blog Picks/feed surfaces only.
- Featured Game of the Day pages belong only under Game of the Day / Featured
  Game surfaces and must not be promoted as normal pick or blog cards.
- Every daily slate must include one selected Featured Game of the Day.
- The BetLegendPicks homepage Featured Game of the Day widget must be updated
  during the slate workflow with the verified featured matchup, date, teams,
  starting pitchers/probable starters when applicable, game time, venue, team
  records, relevant stats, and featured-game betting context or preview summary.
  All widget facts must be verified from reliable current sources before
  publishing.
- Game preview articles belong under Game Previews & Records and the matching
  sport preview pages, not in the Latest Blog Picks pick-card feed.
- Every published article must still be reachable through the correct homepage,
  archive, category/dropdown, sitemap, calendar, or static crawl surface so no
  valid content is orphaned.
- Before editing, complete the routing audit: identify content type, count
  today's posts on the target site, pick the allowed surfaces, identify the
  forbidden surfaces, and confirm the URL will not be orphaned.
- Run `python scripts/validate_homepage_pick_image_uniqueness.py` before any
  BetLegend homepage feed change. A failure blocks publishing.

LOCKED GOOGLE SHEET PICK PAGE STYLE - MAY 18, 2026
--------------------------------------------------

Every BetLegendPicks Google Sheet pick page must use the compact standalone
style from:
dodgers-padres-first-five-innings-under-4-5-yamamoto-king-petco-park-mlb-pick.html

Start new pages from google-sheet-pick-page-template.html when practical.

This is the default format going forward unless Nima explicitly requests a
different layout for one specific page.

Required structure:
1. Sticky/simple top navigation with BetLegend Picks brand plus Home, Latest,
   and Archive links.
2. Centered hero with sport/date badge, direct H1, and concise matchup subtitle.
3. One verified action image or relevant official image asset below the hero,
   with descriptive alt text and caption.
4. Main article card with a gold-bordered pickbox at the top showing the exact
   official pick, odds, units, and tracker row when available.
5. Verified game board table immediately after the pickbox.
6. Short sectioned H2 analysis blocks.
7. Risk/what-beats-the-bet callout.
8. Bottom-line section restating the exact published pick.
9. Source note with tracker/source attribution and outbound source links.
10. Simple footer with publish date and responsible-analysis language.

Style requirements:
- Dark navy/blue editorial background, bright blue section accents, gold pick
  emphasis, readable Arial/Helvetica typography, clean spacing, and responsive
  mobile-safe sizing.
- Keep Google Sheet pick pages compact, sharp, and standalone.
- Do not use the older giant neon/Orbitron calendar-sidebar layout for Google
  Sheet pick pages unless Nima explicitly asks for it.
- Do not publish a Google Sheet pick page that lacks the pickbox,
  verified-detail table, risk callout, source note, or responsive standalone
  article styling.

LOCKED ARCHIVE SOURCE OF TRUTH - MAY 18, 2026
---------------------------------------------

The full archive source of truth is the current set of root-level dated
post/article/pick HTML files, excluding utility surfaces, hubs, records pages,
and generated archive pages. Do not manually maintain a partial archive list.

After adding or restoring any published post/article/pick page, run:
python scripts/rebuild_archive_cards.py
python scripts/audit_archive_cards.py

Required archive/card rules:
- scripts/rebuild_archive_cards.py regenerates site-posts-manifest.json,
  archive.html, and latest.html from the full current source.
- archive.html must include every valid manifest post in reverse chronological
  order.
- latest.html may show the newest subset, but it must be generated from the
  same manifest.
- homepage-picks-data.js remains the manual Google Sheet pick-card feed only.
  Do not add Featured Game pages, preview/slate pages, guide pages, hub pages,
  or records pages to it.
- Before publishing, scripts/audit_archive_cards.py must report zero missing
  archive entries.
- Homepage Pick Archive buttons must point at archive.html, not old partial
  archive pages.

STEP 1 - DEFINE THE JOB
-----------------------

1. Identify the exact content type:
   - Daily slate article
   - Single-game preview
   - Pick page
   - Calendar/archive article
   - Homepage featured game or pick card
   - Data/update page

2. Identify the sport and page family:
   - NBA, NHL, MLB, NFL, NCAAB, NCAAF, Soccer, Featured Game, Picks

3. Identify the post date:
   - Use the publishing/post date, not the game date, for calendars
   - The post date must appear in title/meta where applicable
   - Add window.FORCED_PAGE_DATE when the page type uses it

4. Identify the expected output files before editing.

STEP 2 - FIND THE CORRECT EXISTING FORMAT
-----------------------------------------

1. Open strong historical pages from the same sport/page family.
2. Match the old/Claude-style BetLegend structure.
3. Required sports article elements:
   - Matchup blocks
   - Team logos/crests/badges beside team names
   - Dated metadata
   - Sport calendar/sidebar
   - Mobile archive selector when applicable
   - Correct sport calendar script
   - Clean spacing and typography matching existing pages

4. Do not create a new generic template because it is faster.
5. Do not publish plain text cards, placeholder panels, or pages that look
   unlike established BetLegend archive/article pages.

STEP 3 - GATHER AND VERIFY SOURCE DATA FIRST
--------------------------------------------

Before writing, verify every fact that may appear in the article.

Required source checks:
1. Official/primary schedule source for games, dates, times, venues, networks
2. Current team records and standings
3. Current player team assignments
4. Injuries and availability from current sources
5. Betting lines, totals, moneylines, and market movement if mentioned
6. Team stats, player stats, rankings, splits, and recent form if mentioned
7. ATS, O/U, head-to-head, or trend data if mentioned
8. Weather, park, travel, rest, or schedule context if mentioned
9. Logo/crest/badge URLs or verified visual assets

Rules:
- Never use memory for current facts
- Never invent, estimate, extrapolate, or round unless the source does
- Never write "hot", "struggling", "sharp money", "public side", "trend
  points", or "line moved" without verified evidence
- If a fact cannot be verified, omit it or ask for the source

STEP 4 - BUILD A SOURCE NOTES LIST
----------------------------------

Before drafting, keep a short working list of verified inputs:
1. Games on slate and exact game count
2. Records/standings used
3. Injuries/availability used
4. Stats/rankings used
5. Lines/totals/moneylines used
6. Trends/splits used
7. Images/logos used

If the notes list is thin, do more research before writing.

STEP 5 - WRITE THE ARTICLE
--------------------------

Required writing standard:
1. Every section must discuss the actual teams and matchup.
2. Explain how the teams have been playing using verified context.
3. Include concrete statistical or tactical reasons the matchup matters.
4. Explain schedule/rest/travel/market context when relevant and verified.
5. If a featured image or graphic is used, mention what it shows and why it
   matters.
6. Use a human, sharp, professional betting-analysis tone.

Banned:
- Generic paragraphs that could fit any game
- Empty matchup commentary
- Placeholder language: coming soon, TBD, TBA, analysis pending, check back,
  generic preview, matchup analysis coming soon
- Fake stats, fake trends, fake injuries, fake odds, fake records
- Vague unsupported claims dressed up as analysis

STEP 6 - ADD GRAPHICS AND LOGOS
-------------------------------

1. Every matchup needs team logos/crests/badges.
2. Use verified real logos when available.
3. If a real logo cannot be verified, use a clean labeled badge and do not
   claim it is official.
4. Verify image URLs load when practical.
5. Alt text must describe the team/image clearly.
6. No broken images, missing logos, unrelated graphics, or generic placeholders.

STEP 7 - ADD CALENDAR AND ARCHIVE METADATA
------------------------------------------

1. Confirm the title includes the full post date where calendar extraction
   depends on title.
2. Confirm meta/date text uses the post date.
3. Confirm window.FORCED_PAGE_DATE is present when applicable.
4. Confirm the correct sport calendar script is linked:
   - NBA: scripts/nba-calendar.js
   - NHL: scripts/nhl-calendar.js
   - MLB: scripts/mlb-calendar.js
   - NFL: scripts/nfl-calendar.js
   - NCAAB: scripts/ncaab-calendar.js
   - NCAAF: scripts/ncaaf-calendar.js
   - Soccer: scripts/soccer-calendar.js
   - Featured Game: scripts/featured-games-calendar.js
5. Calendars track post date, not game date.
6. Same-day posts must all remain reachable through the multi-post chooser.
7. Missing dates are a release-blocking bug.
8. Current-day unpublished slate pages are not historical completeness failures.
   Do not create placeholders, fake pages, or backdated content just to satisfy
   validation. The validator should skip the current date until a legitimate
   page is published; once published, it must be linked and archived normally.

STEP 8 - UPDATE FEEDS AND RELATED DATA
--------------------------------------

Do this only when the content type requires it:
1. Add Google Sheet betting picks to the homepage Latest Blog Picks feed.
2. Never add Featured Game of the Day articles, sport/game preview articles,
   news, guides, hubs, or other non-pick articles to `homepage-picks-data.js`
   or the homepage pick-card fallback grid.
3. Route Featured Game of the Day articles only through Game of the Day ->
   Featured Game and the featured-games calendar/data surfaces.
4. Update the homepage Featured Game of the Day widget to point to or accurately
   represent the current featured game. This widget is not a generic blog text
   card and must not be powered by `homepage-picks-data.js`.
5. Route sport/game preview articles only through Game Previews & Records,
   the relevant sport preview hub, sport calendar/archive, blog/latest feed,
   sitemap/feed, and static crawl links.
6. Preserve existing posts. Do not overwrite or delete old content.
7. Insert new content in the correct newest-first order for its own surface.
8. After publishing, verify every article is linked through the correct
   navigation surface and that no valid article is orphaned.
9. After every slate run, verify the live homepage Featured Game widget is
   current and visually correct before reporting completion.

STEP 9 - RUN REQUIRED AUTOMATED CHECKS
--------------------------------------

For sports/calendar/slate work:
python scripts/sync_calendars.py
python scripts/validate_slate_completeness.py --range 3
Get-ChildItem scripts\*-calendar.js | ForEach-Object { node --check $_.FullName }

Calendar validation must prove that every valid day of each visible month
renders in the correct weekday position. Days without content may be muted or
disabled, but they must still appear. Days with content must be clickable or
open the same-day post chooser.

The slate completeness validator should flag past dates that should already be
published, existing pages that are orphaned, linked pages returning non-200, and
archives/calendars missing past-date anchors. It should not flag the current
date solely because same-day coverage has not been created yet.

For homepage pick feed work:
python scripts/validate_homepage_pick_image_uniqueness.py

For content/news validation when applicable:
python scripts/accuracy_filter.py
python scripts/validate_news_before_publish.py

If any command fails, fix the issue and rerun the check.

STEP 10 - MANUAL QUALITY REVIEW
-------------------------------

Open or inspect every edited page and verify:
1. Correct old/Claude-style BetLegend format
2. Logos/crests/badges appear in every matchup block
3. No broken images
4. Correct sport calendar/sidebar appears
5. Mobile archive selector exists when the page family uses it
6. Date metadata is complete and correct
7. All same-day posts remain reachable
8. No placeholders
9. No generic filler
10. No unverified stats, records, injuries, lines, trends, or claims
11. The article mentions the actual teams and how they have been playing
12. The article discusses the relevant graphics/images when present
13. Desktop screenshot shows the public URL and the complete calendar month
14. Mobile screenshot or responsive inspection confirms cards, logos, title,
    and calendar/mobile archive do not overlap
15. Homepage/internal links pointing to the page still resolve

STEP 11 - GIT REVIEW BEFORE FINAL
---------------------------------

1. Run git status.
2. Review the diff for edited files.
3. Confirm no unrelated user changes were reverted.
4. Confirm no generated calendar or data file was missed.
5. Confirm no old posts disappeared.

STEP 12 - DEPLOYMENT OR HANDOFF
-------------------------------

If the user asked for publish/deploy:
1. Commit the correct files.
2. Push.
3. Verify the live pages.
4. Spot-check links, images, calendars, and latest content.
5. Capture live URL screenshot proof after deploy.

If the user did not ask for publish/deploy:
1. Leave the work staged/unstaged as appropriate.
2. Report exactly what changed.
3. Report which checks passed.
4. Report any remaining risk or check that could not be run.

FINAL STANDARD
--------------

Correct format plus verified facts is the minimum. If it looks generic, misses
logos, hides posts, skips calendar days, or includes an unverified claim, it is
not ready.
GOLD-STANDARD LIVE PUBLISHING GATE - MAY 15, 2026

Before any BetLegend publishing task is called complete, verify the current live public URL, not only the local file or deploy log. Do not claim a page is published until it is visible on https://www.betlegendpicks.com/ at its final URL.

Every publishing run must check: homepage latest sections, Latest Blog Picks, daily pick links, game preview hubs, sport hubs, calendar/archive widgets, static crawl links, sitemap/feed entries where applicable, and the verified records page table. Do not claim completion based only on local build success or deployment success. Do not claim completion without checking homepage/internal links and visually checking the live page.

MLB PREVIEW AND ARCHIVE CALENDAR STANDARD - LOCKED MAY 16, 2026

1. MLB preview/archive calendars must keep four states separate: current real
   date, article/page date, linked available preview dates, and selected/active
   article date. Do not use one date variable for all four meanings.
2. No valid date in the displayed month may disappear. Empty days render muted;
   linked days render clickable; active article and today can coexist on
   different dates.
3. Before completion, visually inspect the live public MLB preview/archive URL
   in a real browser and confirm the address bar shows betlegendpicks.com, the
   full month is visible, today is correct, the article date is marked only as
   the article date, and linked preview dates open the right pages.
4. Every published MLB preview page must be visually inspected on its live
   public URL before it is marked complete. Localhost, source review, build
   success, deploy success, and HTTP checks alone do not count.
5. MLB game previews must match the deeper historical Claude style: matchup
   context, probable starter analysis, bullpen context where relevant, team
   offensive form, handedness splits where relevant, park/weather/context where
   relevant, and market/betting angle discussion. Use verified data only; omit
   anything that cannot be sourced.
6. Generic short summaries are not acceptable. Every game section must read
   like premium human betting analysis and must avoid fake stats, invented
   trends, unsupported injuries, and filler phrasing.

Do not touch canonical tags unless explicitly instructed. Do not overwrite user-written content. Do not restore older files. Do not rebuild from older versions. Do not break recent fixes. Make the smallest forward patch needed and confirm the git diff before and after deploy.
